Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Uh-huh.
We get 100 little shits like you,
transferred from youth
corrections every year.
Now, you got two problems.
One, you done all your time so far
with kids, instead of real cons.
So you think you tougher
than you actually are.
Two, the guards of the Y.O.S.
still think they can put
Humpty back together again.
Which makes you soft.
It means you used to getting
away with shit.
Here, you throw an elbow
at another inmate,
we got a problem.
You understand that?
Aw, man.
This is gonna be fun.
Hell of a way to make a first
impression on your committee, yo.
Pick a fight before
you even step off the bus.
Burns.
Let's go.
Shoulder against the wall.
Fuck!
What, are you nervous?
These kids have been going to
school together forever.
What if they don't like me?
I know better than you, boy.
They know nothing about you.
You're gonna be great.
There's Larr.
We're here to discuss
the enrolment of James Burns
into the freshman class
of Roosevelt High School,
per the request of
his mother, Tracy Burns.
Miss Burns,
let me be frank with you.
We have some concerns.
Okay.
We're listening.
We've read your son's record, and
we're not convinced that our school
is the right place for a student
with his particular history.
There are other institutions
that might be more...
Wait.
Beneficial.
Are you saying
you're-you're not gonna take him?
Obviously we're... This
is a public school.
Is this...
Experiences of abuse
that your son endured,
but the fact is
that James has a record
of unstable,
even violent behaviour.
He could be a danger
to the other children.
Mm-hmm.
You spent 20 minutes
with this file,
suddenly you're
an expert on my son?
You're the James expert.
Excuse me.
Feel free at any time
to step in and do your job.
At 14, James already
has convictions for robbery,
vandalism, and assault.
He's been institutionalized
three times in eight years,
once for threatening your
boyfriend with a knife.
Jesus, he was ten years old.
The fact is...
All the required equivalency tests.
Yes, he has.
He wants to enrol here,
and his counsellor has
declared him fit to do so.
And he will.
And we'll be back.
Come on, let's go.
♪ It's only music
♪ So what's wrong with music?
♪ And there's hate
♪ It's only music
Hold on.
♪ Deception, injected
Yeah?
♪ Shape things to come
♪ A below birth
and break it down from birth ♪
♪ Cursed, sinnin' and killin'
275 million ♪
♪ Imperfections connected with
the greatest invention ♪
♪ The intentions of flesh
Yes?
You know...
I've heard bullshit like that
woman said my whole life.
This is a setback, that's all.
No one said it was gonna be easy.
Whatever.
You've been doing real good
these past three months,
but you gotta be patient.
You gotta...
you gotta stay home,
you gotta stay outta trouble,
you gotta let the
lawyer do his job.
Yeah.
No one's gonna drive you to
school today if you miss the bus.
Holly, did you finish the milk?
No.
Fuck it.
♪ Can't you get what you give?
♪ Gimmie-gimmie what you got
Hey, what's up?
Um, hi.
Hi.
How are you?
I'm good, how are you.
Yo, dude, your toilet's flooded.
Go, go, go, go.
Run, hurry!
What the hell?
Goddamn kid, I'll teach you lesson.
Come on.
Come on, come on!
What are you doing?
That was crazy!
I'm Crystal.
I'm James.
You wanna get high?
I just bought these
high tops this year.
150 fuckin' dollars.
You know what the problem is?
They're made by some kids in China.
Probably doesn't even know what
a pair of sneakers looks like.
What are you talking about?
Yo, I gotta get out of here.
Why?
If I'm not home by eight,
a box pops up my PO's computer
and I'm fucked.
Oh shit.
What did you do?
I brought home a gun.
My mom found it in my sock drawer and
freaked, so I got 15 months in juvie.
Wait, are you serious?
Your mom called the cops.
Yeah.
Your mom.
Damn.
I gotta go.
Oh, no, don't be like that.
Come on.
Come on, I'm just playing with you.
I'm sure Mommy loves you very much.
Shit.
The kids looks about...
Nine?
Probably doesn't have
a care in the world.
I'm 14.
And fuck you.
I got cares.
So that thing only works at night?
I guess so.
So what are you doing tomorrow?
Okay.
Try it now.
Ha-ha.
What's up?
New fish.
I give him two weeks.
Mm-mm, bullshit.
Three days commissary says
Jongo's gonna turn him out
quicker'n nothin'.
Oh, shit look at what we got here.
What's up, fresh meat?
She looks like a little puta to me.
I don't want trouble.
S'all right, Opie.
You'll be safe with us.
We got your back.
Leave it alone, JB.
Guillermo already got beef with you over
that beat down you gave his boy at intake.
Yo, Guillermo,
why you such a bitch?
Holy shit,
it's fuckin' Dennis the Menace.
You got something
to say, white boy?
Huh?
Wanna make this about us, or what?
Nah.
I'm just wondering why
a bigger mano like you
only has the heart
to fuck with the punks.
Fuck you.
You disrespectful little bitch.
You just bought that one.
Everybody get the fuck down!
Fuck you!
Get down.
Get up, Burns.
You been here, what?
Three weeks?
And how many fights is that, convict?
'Cause honestly I've lost count.
You know, at first
I thought, I dunno,
maybe you're trying
to prove yourself.
Show the natives they shouldn't
mess with you and your baby face.
But now I think, maybe you're
just a guy that likes fighting.
Just trying to protect...
And who the fuck are you?
Chris Cesario.
I'm new.
No shit!
You think this asshole
is protecting you?
You think he's your friend?
Are you this fish's friend, inmate?
No.
Are you trying to protect
him from getting his shit reamed
by this wetback
or anybody else in my yard?
No.
Why don't you tell him, inmate?
I don't give a fuck about you.
You must not care
about the ratification committee.
You couldn't possibly.
'Cause you like it here.
I like it here.
The difference is, I like it
here because this is my yard.
You like it here 'cause it's an
opportunity for you to suck dick!
Once a loser...
always a loser.
Thought you said
your mom wasn't home.
Okay, then, why are you afraid?
Look, Mary,
I thought you were cool.
Okay!
Nice place, Mary.
Oh.
Mary.
You were very cute.
What happened?
Just like a...
oh!
Was this what
you were talkin' about?
Cold?
Hot?
Yeah.
Yeah?
Hey, Mary.
I knew you were cool.
♪ Uh-oh, there's
a new kid in town ♪
♪ Runnin' round- it's me
♪ Poured if I came and mothed up
your street spot ♪
♪ Auxiliary runs deep
from outta me with ease ♪
♪ I'll turn your block to
a north gathering indeed ♪
♪ Uh
Oh...
I wanna dance.
Dance with me?
Come on.
♪ Word. Wait till two AM
its on ♪
♪ I grab some Krylon
♪ And creeps across ya lawn
Cool.
♪ Lookers and proceed to boom
♪ Trash the can, grab the tips,
clean my hands, I'm gone ♪
♪ But now I got a new canvas
that I can damage ♪
♪ Hip-hop distracts
I'm onto my platform ♪
♪ They can't stand it
♪ They already
want my ass gone ♪
♪ And you would think I'm
playing this all ♪
♪ I paint the world like
♪ If you ain't out for fame,
get out the game ♪
♪ 'Gainst the grey
thug about my name ♪
♪ Grab your bad, get your hoodie
on and get your girl ♪
♪ We'll be back
when they mention ♪
♪ Though we paintin'
the world ♪
♪ To the kids,
say yo, yo, yo ♪
♪ Gettin' crazy
out for fame ♪
So, Mary...
Do you get high?
I have an idea.
Which ones?
Okay, seriously, stop.
Oh my God, relax, Mary.
It's not like we're gonna steal
your mom's jewellery.
Um...
yes we are.
All right, my bad, ha-ha!
We are.
Fuck you.
You know, it's a shame you got
that thing on your ankle.
'Cause Roc would love you.
Who's Roc?
Manny and I do some work for him.
Making runs, shit like that.
You mean like drugs?
Ha-ha!
Wow.
What?
When you talk
about it, it sounds boring.
Anyone in the game on the East side
knows he's got that product.
And he's got 'em shook too,
'cause Roc don't
back down from nobody.
Fuck.
It's cold out.
Hey, James.
You know what?
Any time he wants...
your PO can come to this house
and search through your shit.
You think he won't haul your ass
right back into lockup?
So tell me, what is this?
Did you have people over?
Were you drinking alcohol
in my house?
What about school?
You know the judge is about
to hear your appeal.
And we are so close.
So close to what?
I've been stuck at home
for two months.
And they're still fighting
to keep me out.
They don't want me.
Do you know how hard
I'm working for you?
You know what?
Fuck school!
I'm tired of being a charity case.
I really am.
You know, I wouldn't even go
back to that fucking place now
if they begged me!
You smart ass, you don't mean that.
I know you don't mean that.
Oh yeah?
If you're so smart, where's Dad?
Huh?
Okay, that's real
mature and, you know,
I'd love to sit around
and whine all day,
but I'm actually trying to live up
to my God damn responsibilities,
so go ahead...
fuck up your life!
See if I care.
So...
Shower time.
Time to wash those asses.
Get a move on.
Move, move.
James.
James, look out!
Move out.
Chris!
They've been at
it before, maybe five minutes.
The water in the showers
is gonna be turned off.
We're just giving them a bit
before we go in
and let them wear each other out.
Go!
Go, go, go, get in there.
Medical!
I need medical!
Need medical in shower six!
Stat!
A medic!
Who brought in the shank?
The kid in critical condition
with two stab wounds...
he stole a car.
First offence.
Zero record of violence.
His mother comes
to visit him every week,
together with his girlfriend.
I'm not a snitch.
So what?
Think your pals aren't gonna talk?
You don't think that bean eater
is gonna say the shank was yours?
I looked up your arrest report.
You got away that night.
Clean.
You wouldn't even be in here
if your girlfriend
hadn't sold you out.
Jesus Christ.
Her statement was 12 pages long.
Fuck you!
Nobody's following this bullshit
code of honour but you.
Inside.
Put your hands through.
♪ I either comin' like
Noah 'Chu lookin' for, yo?
I need to talk to Roc.
What'chu got, man?
Well?
I need to make some money.
Yo D, who the fuck is this?
I'm a friend of Crystal's?
He wasn't talking to you, man.
Crystal?
Get down here.
Now!
Bitch talks too much.
You call something for this kid?
I only met him once.
Not exactly a ringing
endorsement, is it?
I got a general rule
that everybody
on my crew's old enough
to have hair on their dicks.
Yo, I'm not leaving.
Oh, man.
Excuse me?
Look, I get it.
You take some
weak-ass kid under your wing,
and you look weak too.
But I'm not asking for a favour.
I got brains.
Plus I can hustle.
And I don't scare easy.
Woof woof woof.
You okay running errands?
Cleaning the bathroom,
shit like that?
Yeah.
Good.
'Cause we do this,
you'll be my bitch.
Take it or leave it,
non-negotiable.
I take it.
My bitch!
Hello?
Hey.
It's me.
James, what the fuck?
The police are here every day
looking for you.
They pulled Holly out of class.
I'm not coming home.
We can still find a
way to fix this.
I love you, but there's nothing
else you can do for me.
I know you think I don't
understand, but whatever it is,
you've decided
you have to do right now
Just tell me where you are
and I'll come get you, boy.
Tell Holly to keep her head up.
Hey...
What was that?
Don't worry about it.
Yo, this is bullshit,
I can help, man.
You don't know shit
about packing no ammo.
We'll be done with these
faggots in ten minutes.
Your job is to be
waiting right here
with the key in the ignition.
Okay.
♪ Pop willie pop
♪ Guess what?
Aw, freestyle ♪
♪ Bottom of the gun
and is so dramatic ♪
♪ Like the oceans crashing
and the former waves ♪
♪ Imma pour, it's gonna rain
♪ And when I pop my style
♪ You get transformed from the
name to a civilized man ♪
♪ With a mic in the hand
selling with gat ♪
♪ You wanna strap somethin' else
follow me rap ♪
♪ Listen
♪ Yo, running back doors
♪ Running back doors
Hold it!
You're not so tough now, are you?
Huh, tough guy?
Huh?
You really thought you was gonna
come in here and take our shit?
Ow!
Oh, shit.
Ah!
What the shit?
Manny, grab the shit!
Shut the fuck up.
Holy shit!
You, look at me.
Lights out, motherfucker.
Things just got real for you, kid.
Let's go.
Go!
Bet you'd like to stick
your dick in that, huh?
I'd love to.
I bet that kid doesn't even know
what a pussy looks like.
I do.
It looks like Manny.
Ha-ha.
Oh.
Thank you.
Look.
The world's a jungle.
Right?
It's ugly.
That's just how it is.
Guys like me and you survive,
'cause we're the fuckin' lions.
That's half Manny's
take from tonight.
You earned it.
But don't take it unless you
want what comes with it.
Well, I want it.
No.
I'm not sure you do.
I want the fuckin' money, Roc.
Okay then.
Yes.
Yo, shut up a minute!
To Jamesy Boy.
Kid can kick up some fuckin' dust.
I gotta take a piss.
Yeah, you go do that.
Yo, Mercedes!
I wanna introduce you
to my new boy.
♪ Sudden yeah
♪ But you don't know
♪ I gotta have to try again
♪ The argument
♪ And just like that
♪ It's gone
♪ You crazy kid
♪ You let it show
♪ You're perfect
how you got it ♪
♪ And so forget it
♪ And just like that
♪ It's gone
So I heard you had
a really good day today.
Roc's not so easily impressed.
I guess he recognizes talent.
That was on the phone
with my mom today.
I told her I'm not coming home.
♪ A sudden hit
♪ And you don't know
♪ You don't have to
do it again ♪
♪ And just like that,
it's gone ♪
You wanna dance?
Yeah.
I do.
You know what the worst
thing was about living with my mom?
It was the constant reminder
we weren't gonna make it.
Seeing her putting
more and more hours
to pay fewer and fewer bills.
Busting her ass
trying to work a system
that had let her down from day one.
Now my kid sister's
in trouble at school.
The teachers all decide
she's a bad kid.
She gets labelled and she's fucked.
Because that's how the world
works for people like us.
If we let it, you know?
What?
You can sleep here if you want to.
Hold.
Open 42.
Watch out!
Hey, old timer.
You got anything to read?
Come on, I've been in the
hole for three weeks.
I'm going batshit.
I don't wanna be friends, guppy.
I've been down more than three
years, I ain't no fish.
JB...
Guillermo runnin' his mouth, man.
Punk ass said you snuck him
in the shower.
Wants to put a knife in your back.
So what?
So we should handle that.
Why does nobody test that guy?
'Cause that guy made it known
he didn't wanna be tested.
Motherfucker's got
status in the yard.
Killed five people inside and
saying he's done two more since.
Hold!
Planning a vacation?
Don't talk to me.
Why I'm right?
'Cause poetic seizures keep me
thinking in Morse code,
so I write all the Tory
hallucinations in sign language,
so you can see how it sounds
when I write, all right?
I write keys and escape plans
but chain gangs,
street gangs turn into literary
genius, am I right?
I rewrite, everybody start,
everyone have to write...
Yard's over!
Yo.
What's in Rio de "Janeerio"?
Shut up.
Hit.
Somethin' better.
Somethin' better?
It's pronounced "Janeiro".
You've been?
Only in my mind.
I got this kid hurt.
There was a fight in the
showers and he got stabbed.
So?
So, I'm gonna
do something about it.
Oh, starting
a yard war is a good way
to make sure you don't
go back to the real world.
Maybe that's what you're scared of.
I'm not scared.
Oh, you think you different
than these other assholes?
News for you, kid.
You're not.
Go!
Oh, shit!
Hey.
Um, can I get two grape cigarillos
and a pack of racks, please?
Do you have ID?
Oh... I think I forgot it at home.
Come on, we're friends aren't we?
Just take it.
What?
I don't want any trouble.
I've seen you around.
I know you deal drugs.
I'm not robbing you.
I'm paying, see?
I'm James.
Hey.
Come here.
Let's go somewhere and fuck.
♪ Uh-huh
♪ It's a fly little low so
♪ I thought you got that outfit
last week week ♪
♪ When you were shoppin'
Call it heavy ♪
♪ Fly while you catch up
on the latest ♪
Hey yo, slow down.
Yo!
Are you deaf?
Hey, yo, slow down.
What, here?
Yo, pull the fuck over!
Pull over!
What the hell is wrong with you? You
know with the shit we got in the trunk?
If a cop pulled us over
we would get ten years.
Roc sends you on a couple errand boy jobs
and suddenly you're fucking invincible?
No.
Then what?
What?
I've invincible all along.
Ugh!
Plus, with the amount of paper
I've been puttin' in Roc's pocket,
he's gonna start
taking me more seriously.
I ain't nobody's bitch, Crystal.
Grimey, fuck this.
Jamesy Boy here, talkin' me
into bringing him back
to their own crib,
to plan their next move.
But once, now look, once he's inside...
Wha'd you do, man?
I robbed them.
Oh, shit.
Naw, right?
Swear to God,
no jokes little brother,
picks up one of their
own pieces, right?
A'ight.
Mm-hmm, yeah.
Stands one guy, against four.
Eenie, meenie, miney,
motherfuckin' Moe.
Shit.
Tells him he's collecting
a "disloyalty tax".
Disloyalty tax.
Hold up.
What the fuck happened after that?
They shit their pants,
is what happened!
They paid him!
They pissed all over their rug.
And I end up making money
on what's supposed to be
a strike against me.
Right?
But that shit ain't even the point.
Naw.
The point is,
Jamesy Boy's got loyalty.
It was good.
I want to talk to you about
some ideas I got.
Maybe a couple deals I think
I could line up on my own.
All right.
Drink one of these.
Put some fuckin' bass
in your voice.
Not now.
Right?
You keep putting in that work
on the smaller jobs, we'll see.
All good?
Cool.
All right.
By the way,
congratulations on Crystal.
Thank God for the sluts, right?
Hon, look what I found.
What is this,
like a diary or some shit?
You writing down your feelings?
What are you doing?
Can you imagine if Roc
or Drew found this?
Give it back!
Oh my God.
I said give it back to me!
Oh! Calm down.
Hey.
I just didn't know
my big tough gangster
had a soft and chewy centre.
What?
Hey!
Hey.
Come here.
I'm sorry, okay?
I promise we'll never
talk about your diary again.
All right?
How was your drive?
Long.
There was construction,
the weather's shit, of course.
How's Holly?
Better.
She says hi.
She looks like she might actually...
make good.
I guess I probably
helped with that.
"Now you best behave yourself
or you'll end up
You haven't ended up
like anything yet.
God, I hate...
I hate this place.
I could've been here too.
No, you wouldn't have.
Thanks.
What do you want for Christmas?
What?
Your hearing's in five weeks,
it's your first
Christmas in four years,
you can bet there's gonna be
something under the tree.
When was the last time
you got a tree?
I'm getting you a kickass present,
so unless you want socks,
you better say something.
Just a hearing, Mom.
We've both got dealt
shitty hands, boy,
but things are gonna get better?
Yeah.
Yo.
Well?
Is it honest?
Yeah.
Why the hell do you
care what I think?
You really kill five people?
There's a giant bay...
and in the middle there's a rock...
and way up high on the mountain...
there's a 100-foot tall
statue of Jesus Christ...
with his arms spread out.
They speak Spanish there, right?
Naw.
No, Portuguese.
It's the only country
in South America
where they don't speak Spanish.
And they eat those, um...
those little bananas, right?
Plantains.
Hmm.
Now you keep writing.
It don't matter about what,
it don't even matter
if it's good or not.
You do everything you can
to just block this shit out.
Just block it out.
Prisons are packed
with crowded spaces.
Lifers and guards,
with hollow faces.
Amongst the sea...
But amongst the sea
of tribulation...
♪ Well, I'm waiting on a day
when the people walk free ♪
♪ To see and the penitentiary
is on fire ♪
♪ There's only
to be your mother ♪
♪ Or your brother or the one
to come before you for ♪
♪ I'm waiting on a time when
the people walk free to see ♪
♪ And the
penitentiary in our mind ♪
♪ There's no need
to bleed for your father ♪
♪ Or your son all the
the one that you recall ♪
♪ When the penitentiary
is on fire ♪
♪ I'm waiting on a day
when the people come free ♪
Cesario, get up man.
You gotta show them you're
strong, get the fuck up, man.
All right.
What's up with you?
What's up, ha.
Read that.
I had a girl on the outside too.
I was crazy for her.
But after I went down,
she stopped talking.
It's tough.
But it's not the end of the world.
I guess so, ha.
Stephanie was like the whole
reason I kept going.
Two fucking years.
So, you know, um,
when I was in the med ward,
there were these visitors that
would come in and read to us.
One of them told me something.
That we have the right
to file a formal complaint
and bypass the COs, and go
straight to the administration.
You can't do that.
If there's an investigation,
maybe they'll...
maybe they'll transfer
me out of here.
Where do you think you are?
Administration would never side
with an inmate against the system.
Everybody looks out for their own.
All right.
You're close.
Just keep your head down.
All right, once you're out of here, you'll
get a new girlfriend with bigger tits.
Yeah?
You promise?
Did your old girlfriend
have big tits?
Um, I... no.
I promise.
What are you doin' here?
Thought Roc was sending Drew?
He couldn't come.
It's just me.
Who the fuck are you?
We're here to collect for Roc.
The fuck you are.
I deals with Roc.
Not his little schoolboy bitches.
Come on, man.
You know we work for Roc, it
doesn't have to be that way.
Actually, let's do it
exactly this way.
You wanna test us?
Fine.
Pick it up.
Pick it up!
Okay, you pick it up.
James, let's just...
Pick it up!
Now where's the money?
What do you see here, man?
Is this a fucking game
of cops and robbers?
I don't have any.
Bullshit.
Bullshit!
What's in the safe?
Shut up!
Stop screaming!
What are you doing?
Yo!
Bro, somebody's gonna see you.
What the fuck!
You're insane!
Holy shit!
What?
Look at this!
How much you think
this shit's worth?
You're an idiot.
What was I supposed to do?
Turn around and leave the room
with my tail
between my fucking legs?
With a gun on you?
Yeah. That's exactly what
you're supposed to do.
You wanna live to be like Roc?
Then you gotta be smart.
Stop doing 90
with a trunk full of drugs.
I'd rather die young
than just coast through life
without ever stepping up.
Being a man is about
taking initiative.
A man?
You're not a man.
You're just a little boy
with a death wish.
Fuck you!
Grow up!
What about Roc?
Is he a man?
Is that why you fucked him?
James.
Stop.
What about those guys in the club?
Are they men too? I said stop.
You're just a piece of ass to them.
That's all you'll ever be.
Don't you fucking
walk away from me!
Unlock the fridge!
Unlock the fucking fridge!
Hello?
Shit.
I'm sorry.
You have ID?
Um...
It's my dad's store.
We live next door.
I help out when I'm not in school.
I dunno if you know this,
but there's some lunatics
running around this hood.
Especially at this time of night.
He's drunk.
So it's either do it myself
or we lose the business
for the night.
Fair enough.
Anyway, I can handle myself.
What happened to your hand?
You scared of me?
I don't know.
Maybe.
You want a cigarette?
Thanks.
And what are you doing?
Magic trick.
Yeah?
Yeah.
'Kay...
You see?
Full pack.
Mm-hmm.
But wait.
Little shake.
And...
they're gone.
But wait...
They're back.
No way!
Way.
Oh!
I applaud you.
Who was that girl
you were with last week?
Oh...
that is, um, Crystal.
She's all right.
What the fuck did you do?
Roc.
Calm down, bro.
This guy was trying
to screw you over.
I was just showing
a little initiative.
A little initiative?
Yeah.
I'm doing this shit for you, man.
Oh.
Thank God.
'Cause, see,
that's not what I thought.
I thought you got
your pride wounded.
And that you stupidly,
without thinking about it,
burned one of my contacts.
My business partners.
Just to make yourself feel better.
That's not how it is...
Shut the fuck up!
It's not how it...
Shut up!
That's not all!
I also thought you stole
a huge fucking bag of guns
and brought it back to my house!
I oughta fill you
with fucking lead.
James...
Then, James, I thought no.
No.
Jamesy Boy wouldn't do that.
Jamesy Boy's smart.
Jamesy Boy would know
that guns are a shit business.
'Cause if we sell them
on the street...
any punk bitch
who gets busted with one
just to get a couple years
knocked off their time!
Fuckin' James.
That is my money in that bag.
You and D are gonna figure out
a way to fix this.
You feel me?
Yeah.
Hmm?
Come in.
Sorry to bother you, sir.
This is with the medical kites.
Put him in room four.
Sir.
Must be important... if
you wanna talk to me.
Take Cesario off the yard
until his hearing.
Put him in PC.
He's too weak.
You don't get into a fight for a week,
I'm supposed to think you grew a heart.
Somebody's gonna hurt him?
Great.
Gimme a name.
This is an inmate who was involved
in a near fatal knife fight
in my shower room.
That's bullshit...
No, but I don't know
that because, see,
you didn't make a statement
at the time, did you?
So you're gonna let the kid die
to teach me a fucking lesson?
Hey, watch your tone, convict.
Remember who you're talking to.
There are 30,000 people
incarcerated in this state
right at this very minute,
you know how many work here?
3,000.
Total.
My COs come to work ten hours a day
completely surrounded
by assholes like you
who spend 24 trying out
how to murder him.
Big badge of honour to take down
a corrections officer,
ain't that right?
No, for Chris...
If I can't afford to make
the distinction...
you think I'm an asshole
because it's fun?
I do it...
because that's how my guys survive.
I'm taking a real risk sitting
down with you right now.
I'm asking you.
Person to person.
There's nothing I can do.
Hey, yo, white boy...
Heard you been talking to Falton.
You mention me,
or any one of my soldagos...
I'll make sure you get
your throat cut.
Hey, controllate.
It ain't my fault your
little bitch ass boyfriend
keeps on falling down stairs.
You're gonna fuck up
his release, you know that?
Do something.
You ain't got no heart.
Do something, white boy.
Come on.
Hit me.
I wanna see them revoke your ass.
Right here.
Free shot, white boy.
Take your shot, right here.
Yo, wreck that motherfucker, JB.
Do something!
Excuse me.
Can I help you?
Uh, yeah.
Is Sarah around?
Do you know what damn time it is?
Dad, it's okay.
I used to take walks
like this with my mom.
Yeah?
Before she got sick.
The spine, yeah.
She got better.
But she hasn't been the same since.
I think for a while there she
thought she was gonna die
and she was disappointed
that the world didn't stop.
My dad still had the store,
I still went to school.
I made her angry.
Man, you don't hold back, do you.
I can stop if you want.
No, I didn't mean it like that.
I've been institutionalized
since I was six.
What did you do when you were six?
I was an angry kid.
I used to get into fights,
break things, shit like that.
My whole life I've never been
to a regular school.
And as far as I can remember,
every room I walked into...
they already knew
I was a lost cause.
All I want...
is a normal life.
What if a man came from the future
and said you'd have a happy life?
What if he showed you your future wife and
your children and you're all totally happy?
Would you be scared?
I don't know.
Not that it matters.
I'm not the kind of girl
that rises above all this.
I'm not so pretty and I
don't do that well in school.
Nobody's coming from the future
to tell us anything.
Maybe that's true.
But...
you are pretty.
♪ I been down
♪ A different road
♪ I been out
♪ I have been
out of control ♪
♪ But when you touch me
♪ like yeah, yeah
♪ I get my senses back
♪ Yeah
♪ So now feelin' all right
♪ 'Cause nothing feels like
♪ When you're holding on
♪ Say I feel all right
♪ 'Cause nothing feels like
♪ When you're holding
I'm sorry.
♪ I'm feeling all right
♪ 'Cause nothing feels like
♪ When you're holding on
♪ I wanna treat you
♪ Like you wanna be treated
Any news?
Oh yeah.
Cesario got revocated.
Six years.
Heh...
What's the matter, Burns?
You look sad.
Who is that?
Hey!
That's James.
My friends, Robyn.
Hey, what's up?
You got to school here?
Uh, James goes to Roosevelt.
Wanna play some ball?
We need another person.
Sure.
All right.
James is on my team.
Cool.
Ball, ball, ball!
Woo-hoo-hoo-hoo!
Woo!
Get your man!
Ah!
James!
Woo!
Did you see that?
I didn't know you could play ball.
Yeah.
One of many skills I learned
courtesy of the state.
Yo, James.
Hurry up man.
Yo!
Ew, you're all sweating.
'Kay, I'm gonna go play.
All right.
What are you always writing about?
Nothing.
I'm gonna take you away from
this shithole neighbourhood.
That sounds nice.
Things are gonna be different.
We're gonna be different.
Good.
Look who decided to visit.
You know, it's like
you're never here anymore.
I'm leaving.
The fuck you are.
This isn't a good place, Crystal.
It's a dead end.
You should get out too.
With who?
With you?
Do you love me?
No. You don't.
You'd rather fuck that ugly
bitch from the store, right?
Don't talk about her like that.
Where you been that past two weeks?
Huh?
You been sleeping at her house?
You're stupid.
You pathetic little boy.
And you're never gonna find
another woman like me.
You wanna what
me and Roc did last night?
Yo!
Where you going?
I got the call this morning.
Chuck found the body.
The deal's tonight.
What happened to loyalty, James?
What happened to riding
'till the wheels fall off?
Yo.
I'm the guy who took you in
off the street and
gave you your shot.
I don't owe you anything, Roc.
Okay.
Let me paint you a picture,
Jamesy Boy.
One year from now, and we
kicking it at the club,
doing better than ever,
wearing rollies.
Reminiscing.
You know what we're talking about?
We talkin' about James, the pussy.
James, who was less than a man,
and turned his back
on his brothers.
You walk down that street...
Yo...
That's your legacy, kid.
All right, just tonight.
See, D?
I told you we could count on him.
Jamesy Boy's the man.
You know the drills, ladies.
On the line.
Have those ID badges out.
Here we go.
Move it in, mate, let's go.
On the line.
Line 'em up!
Let me see that badge.
Fall in.
Let's go.
Hold!
Hold up.
Check him out!
Check him out.
Check him...
oh, hey, yo.
Hey, yo!
You little whore, you better jump,
'cause I'm gonna make you wish you had.
Don't come any closer.
Officer, stand down!
Cesario, do not do
this on my watch!
You hear me boy?
Chris.
Chris!
We can talk about this, son.
Come to the office,
we'll straighten this out.
Do it!
Come on!
He's doing it!
Think about what you're
fucking doing right now!
No!
Cut him down.
Get him up.
Sir.
Get to your feet, inmate.
Get up!
This is over.
You understand me?
Look at me!
This is over!
It did not have to happen.
Lock it down.
Lock it down!
Move the fuck back!
The fuck... no!
God damn it!
God damn!
Calm the fuck down!
Calm fuckin' down!
Stop!
Right now!
Let him go.
He hit you!
That is an order!
Put him back in his cell.
Check that.
Put him in the hole.
Lock it down.
Lock it down!
Yo, something's up, bro.
No, it's not.
Be easy.
Text him again.
There you are, right there.
James... Drew.
A'ight, a'ight, fellas.
These are my boys,
Easy and Flash right here, yo.
What's good, man?
S'all good, man.
What you guys got?
Uh, I got you man.
Yeah, yeah, check that out, man.
All right, that's what I'm talking about.
It's looking good, man.
Yo, E, man, put this shit in the trunk.
Yo, back up, back up, back up.
Chill, chill.
Look, yo, take, chill, look...
You think I'm stupid, man?
They good for it, I promise...
Yo, show us the money first.
Man, hold up.
James, chill.
Hey, man, do it, yo.
Do it, man.
Pay.
Let's get that money, yo.
You gon' get your money.
You wanna get paid, right?
Yo, E, man, hurry up.
Motherfucker.
Yeah!
Get the fuck
outta here, man.
There's no way out.
They're gonna have to come back.
Oh!
Come on!
Yeah, I see a single gun,
I kill every one
of you motherfuckers.
Man, get the guns!
Yeah.
Oh, shit!
Man...
They're gonna run
the tags on the car.
We gotta get out of town.
You comin' or not?
Fuck you.
Sarah!
Oh my God, what happened to you?
We need to get out
of this city, right now.
What did you do?
Pack up some things.
We'll go somewhere far away
where nobody knows us.
What are you talking about?
There's my family, the store.
I can't just leave.
But it's what we promised.
No, it's not.
Are the police looking for you?
You're asking me to throw
my whole life away, James.
I won't do that.
You're the only thing...
I have left.
I'm sorry.
♪ I been ridin'
♪ To my favourite timin'
♪ It's too bad your timin'
♪ It just never came
♪ Well, I don't know
how else to say ♪
♪ In a different way
♪ But why don't you
♪ Just
♪ Fade away
♪ 'Cause there's
a battle goin' on ♪
♪ Down South of Babylon
♪ So why don't you
just fade away ♪
Lieutenant Falton,
thank you for your patience.
Of course, ma'am. James
Burns, 18 years old,
originally arrested four years ago
for selling of firearms,
drug possession
and illegal possession
of a firearm.
Do you know the inmate
we're talking about?
Yes.
How long has he
been housed with you?
Four months.
And you oversee the
level five portion of the jail
where Mr. Burns was assigned
because of his history of
institutional violence, correct?
Yes, ma'am, I do.
Three months ago,
the prisoner was involved
in an altercation
in the shower room
where another inmate was stabbed
with a homemade weapon.
Well, well, well,
there was some other...
Yes, I know, please.
Yes.
And the prisoner who was injured
had no record of violence
up until that point?
That is correct.
Two weeks ago,
Mr. Burns was involved
in an additional
altercation during roll call,
in which he severely injured
another inmate,
beating him with his fists,
and in the course
of that altercation,
he struck an officer?
Yes.
Lieutenant Falton, is there
something you'd like to add?
I'm sorry, excuse me?
Is there some other
fact or series of facts
that you'd like to privy
the committee's attention?
Lieutenant Falton...
No, ma'am.
Come on, man, what the fuck?
Can't take the heat?
Get the fuck out of the game!
Oh, for real,
that's how you think...
Yeah, that's how I'm gonna play.
What the hell is wrong with you?
Yo, get off my back, Conrad.
Yeah, let me beat
the shit out this white boy.
This is what I'm gonna use to
dig your eyes out of your skull
and feed 'em to your homeboys.
Now get the fuck outta here.
What's wrong with you?
Don't you have a hearing
tomorrow morning?
They're gonna revocate me anyway.
There's nothing I can do.
No, son, I've seen
stranger things happen.
I've seen convicts who wore
suits to walk be revocated.
I've seen convicts who ain't got no
business outside that gate get released.
The people on that panel
are just that.
They're people.
And all you gotta do
is convince one.
Yeah.
I still got my pride.
Oh, man, fuck that.
I bet you think
you being brave, huh?
Stoic.
You're not.
You're letting yourself
become a statistic.
Yeah?
It's easy for you to say... lifer.
Huh, motherfucker, huh?
Who the fuck you talkin' to?
You think I won't break your
motherfuckin' neck right now?
I'd give every limb I got for
1% chance at a real life.
Or a whisper of hope
to take a shit in privacy, huh.
Now, if you wanna take the pass,
you go ahead and take it,
you done this shit before,
motherfucker.
But don't you dare pretend
that that shit is courage.
Don't you dare.
That's some weak-ass, fake-ass,
And you keep playing
pussy around here,
you gonna get fucked.
You got some
pretty ass eyes, bitch.
Before this committee
renders its decision,
is there anything that
the inmate would like to say?
Not too long ago...
I saw an inmate kill himself.
He was my friend.
But I wasn't his, you know?
And maybe I could've helped,
I don't know.
But I'm gonna have to live with
that for the rest of my life.
And I don't think I've let the people in
my life down by making the wrong choices.
I think I let them down
by convincing myself...
I never had a choice to begin with.
You're not the first committee
to sit at a table
and tell me...
I deserve to be an outcast.
And maybe you're not the last.
But for the rest of my life...
people will look at me
and know I was here.
They'll question my integrity...
and say I'm a monster.
But this...
right here...
it's different.
It's different because
for the first time in my life...
I don't believe you.
Everything you've got
written there...
I did it.
And most of it I regret.
But...
No.
I don't have an excuse.
I don't have an explanation.
And if that means I need to
spend four to six more years
before I get another chance...
fine.
I'm gonna have to
live with that too.
But I will get another chance.
And when I do...
I'm gonna fuckin' own it.
That's all.
This is it.
If I see you again...
I'mma kill you.
♪ When you're so long gone
♪ you can't help yourself
You can change over there.
♪ When you're so dead wrong
♪ Let alone no one else
♪ Well, the children still
dying in the street ♪
♪ And babies still
living with disease ♪
♪ And the cops got guns
and poor folks got sons ♪
♪ That work for
Mr. Franklin every week ♪
♪ And if you come lookin'
for hard times ♪
Hands!
Let me see your hands!
♪ Hard times
ain't hard to find ♪
Get on the ground, now!
Now!
♪ 'Cause we're given
that lifeline ♪
♪ Only once in a lifetime
♪ Baby, we was born
♪ Baby, we were born
♪ To be sure, to endure
♪ When the storm comes
♪ Got them sad eyes
♪ Got them cat eyes
♪ Got your angels tired
♪ From saving your life
♪ So you would be best
♪ To contain yourself
♪ Before you end up killed
♪ Get his bare feet
♪ Touching her bare feet
♪ The air breathes sweet
♪ At the mountains peak
♪ And I forgot
♪ What the wise man said
♪ About that ancient thread
♪ And if you've come
looking for hard times ♪
♪ Hard times
ain't hard to find ♪
♪ Cause we
Mom.
♪ Given that lifeline
♪ Only once in a lifetime
♪ Baby, we was born
♪ Maybe we were born
♪ To be sure to adore
♪ When storm comes
♪ Baby, we was born
♪ Maybe we were born
Oh, yeah. Um...
I wanted to give you a head start.
Thank you.
Want some chicken?
Oh, shit.
Get the fuck outta here.
Come here, boy.
Welcome home.
How you doing?
Come on, man, what's a guy like you
doing working in the
dump like this?
Just trying to stay afloat.
You know it's tough to get a
good job with a felony rap.
Yeah.
But it makes me sad.
Listen, I got few things
going for me right now.
And I can always use
good people like you.
You say the words,
I'll put you on deck.
Have you driving a new fuckin'
car by the end of the week.
No.
I'm trying to
fly straight this time.
Do things right.
Oh, okay.
Can't help a man out that
doesn't wanna be helped.
Good luck at finding things
you want outta life
at $7.50 an hour.
Holla at me when you
wanna get serious.
♪ People give
them distractions ♪
♪ Robbed and maimed a soul ♪
♪ Pain of success
♪ Ya head
♪ Now just a spit of butter
figure way to move it ♪
Who the hell are you?
I'm James.
I was just wondering if
Sarah's around.
I wanted to talk to her.
She doesn't live here anymore.
You got engaged.
Yeah.
Jake's at work.
What does he do?
Uh, he's a garbage collector.
He's a good man.
You're happy.
Yeah.
I'm sorry I didn't visit.
You did the right thing.
You moved on.
Was it horrible?
Came through all right.
The trick is to find
something that you love...
and hold onto that...
James.
I wrote poetry.
Everywhere I go in this city
I feel like there's something
trying to pull me back
into my old life.
It's harder than I thought it'd be.
And I need to get out.
Where will you go?
Far from here.
Start over.
New York.
I dunno.
I can't afford New York, but...
James?
Yeah?
Tell me a poem.
Please?
Okay.
In my mind, there's a boy
who exists in chains.
Inside a cold, dark room
of painful solitude
is where he will remain.
Behind these walls
the sorrow is inevitable,
as relentless as
the passage of time.
Mentalities corrupt and
dark, brainwashed,
and hopelessly blind.
Prisons are packed
with crowded spaces,
lifers and guards with
hollow faces.
Shackled hearts afraid of changes,
and weakened wills
become complacent.
Yet, I maintain with patience,
time can limit
but not shatter my will,
strength blazed across my chest
as solid as penitentiary steel.
But the silence speaks, it
tells me all I need to hear,
it confirms my beliefs and its
promises I have to fear.
It reminds me that without
freedom, I'm alone.
And these whitewashed walls
don't make up
for blackened souls.
I've given 95% of my boys
a handshake than a pound,
before they were either locked
down or buried off
in cemetery grounds.
What I've done is who I am,
but who I am is what I do now.
I won't let up or cease to fight.
Just time,
I plan on doing it right.
And what's right lies within me.
I'm learning to
appreciate my struggle
for it would be hard to find
the joy of accomplishment
without it.
We live and we learn.
We rise and we fall.
Like the heartbeat
of a sleeping giant,
with bittersweet dreams.
Stay up, never down.
♪ Well, she won't give in
♪ She won't crack a smile or a grin ♪
♪ But she sure is different
♪ Well, it's written in
red all in her eyes ♪
♪ There's no disguise
♪ Well, she lost so much in Tivoli ♪
♪ Together we could go home
♪ Where they ain't no more pain ♪
♪ Here we could fly
♪ Where there's time for you and I ♪
♪ Together we can walk to the river ♪
♪ Stand with the families
♪ Pull to sounds of the
band from Atlantis ♪
♪ One lovely day, one lovely day ♪
♪ Well, she wanted all
♪ The feelings they got so strong ♪
♪ Then I'm never gonna leave her alone ♪
♪ Well, it's written in
red all in her eyes ♪
♪ There's no disguise
♪ Well she lost so much in Tivoli ♪
♪ Together we could go
♪ Where they ain't no more pain ♪
♪ Together we could fly
♪ Where there's time for you and I ♪
♪ Together we can walk to the river ♪
♪ Stand with the families
♪ Pull to sounds of the
band from Atlantis ♪
♪ One lovely day, one lovely day ♪
♪ One lovely
♪ Day
♪ Uh!
♪ Is this the first day of
the rest of my life or ♪
♪ What's the sort of deal,
what's to fight for ♪
♪ I wrote about every sight sore ♪
♪ So I need a reason to write more ♪
♪ My pen, I feel I should
just put it down ♪
♪ And quit music regardless
of how good it sounds ♪
♪ Just concentrate on my nine to five ♪
♪ Finally get that promotion
♪ Uh!
♪ No more begging people
to post my songs ♪
♪ Just to have these
so-called critics exposed ♪
♪ My rooms and ignore my fright ♪
♪ Sickness they can't see my vision ♪
♪ They got poor eyesight
♪ Well, maybe I do
♪ Either way I'm proud
♪ That I even had a fan
to say goodbye to ♪
♪ Most of them never even have debt ♪
♪ I was not supposed to even have rent ♪
♪ But I can support it
♪ Oh the stars, on me ♪
♪ Still nobody knows my name
♪ What it would be
♪ If life were the same
♪ As that day
♪ My dreams had prayed for ♪
♪ What it can be
♪ Is this the first day of
the rest of my career ♪
♪ Or is it just the last
breath that I can share ♪
♪ Uh, I wrote about every dream ♪
♪ Every minute of my life
♪ Every chapter, every scene
♪ Auditioning for the lead
♪ Memorized every page
♪ But ended up in the audience
♪ Staring up at the stage
♪ Wishing it was me,
reciting all those lines ♪
♪ With the audience captivated,
listening to me ♪
♪ But, uh
♪ This audience is full of actors, well ♪
♪ Wanna be actors,
they can't act as well ♪
♪ To all them that stays,
the seats are empty ♪
♪ Where's all the hip hop fans,
they're all MCs ♪
♪ So even if I'm better than the rest ♪
♪ We're all in the competition ♪
♪ So who's there to impress
♪ A crowd full of performers
lining up in front of me ♪
♪ Open mic signing up in front of me ♪
♪ Because they wanna be
♪ Stars, on me
♪ Still nobody
♪ Knows my name
♪ What it would be
♪ If life were the same
♪ As that day
♪ My dreams had prayed for ♪
♪ What it can be
♪ Stars, on me
♪ Still nobody knows
♪ My name
♪ What it can be
♪ If life were the same
♪ As that day
♪ My dreams had prayed for ♪
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org